=pod

=head1 NAME

newsd - erco's simple nntp news server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item B<newsd> [ -c I<config-file> ] [ -d ] [ -f ]

=item B<newsd> -mailgateway I<group>

=item B<newsd> -newgroup

=item B<newsd> -rotate

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Newsd(8) is a standalone local NNTP news server for private
newsgroup serving on a single server.  It is useful for serving
private newsgroup(s) to an intranet or the Internet and can act
as a simple mail gateway, however it does not interface with
other news servers and cannot manage distributed news feeds,
i.e. Usenet news.

Each client connection forks a child, and the child remains
running until the connection is closed, typically until the user
closes their news reader which can mean a long time.

Options supported by newsd:

=over

=item -c configfile

Use configfile to configure the news server.

=item -d

Run in the foreground with the log level set to "debug" and all
log messages going to "stderr".

=item -f

Run in the foreground; normally newsd will put itself in the background 
once it has loaded the configuration  file  and  setup  its networking 
functions.

=item -mailgateway <group>

Used in /etc/aliases to gateway emails to a newsgroup. 
See L<Configuring a Mail Gateway> below.

=item -newgroup

Interactively prompts for the creation of a new newsgroup.
Administrators should use this to create a new newsgroup. 
See L<Creating New Groups> for an example session.

=item -rotate

Forces the log file to be rotated.

=back

=head1 ADMINISTRATION

The most common thing to administer are the creation and removal
of newsgroups.

=head2 Creating New Groups

New newsgroups can be created on the fly while the I<newsd>
daemon is running using the  following commands:

    newsd -newgroup

You will be prompted for the new group's information.
Here's an example interactive session; '-->' indicates 
administrator's keyboard input:

    -->  # newsd -newgroup
    Enter the new group's name (eg. 'electronics.ttl'):
    -->  erco.fovicks

    Is posting to this group allowed? (Y/n):
    -->  y

    Maximum #lines for postings, '0' if no maximum (default=1000):
    -->  1000

    Description of newsgroup in one short line, '-' if none
    -->  Discussion of all things FOVICKS.

    Administrator's email address for group, '-' if none (default='-'):
    -->  erco@3dsite.com

    CC all postings to this email address, '-' if none (default='-')
    -->  erco@3dsite.com

    *** New group erco.fovicks was created.
    *** Use your news reader to post some test messages.
    *** You can edit /var/spool/news/erco/fovicks/.config later
    to make changes.

    #

=head2 Removing Groups

To remove a newsgroup, simply run 'rm -rf' on that group's
spooler directory. I<newsd> will detect this automatically.

=head2 Configuring a Mail Gateway

To correctly configure a mail gateway to the group:

1) Add a 'replyto' line in the newsgroup's .config file,
e.g. /usr/spool/news/rush/general/.config:

    replyto rush.general@yourdomain.com

2) Create an entry in /etc/aliases, e.g.:

    rush.general: "|newsd -mailgateway rush.general"

being sure to invoke newaliases(1) to make the change
take effect.

3) Make sure I<newsd> is setuid 'root', eg:

    # ls -la newsd
    -rwsr-xr-x  1 root  mail   470437 Jan  8 02:31 newsd
    ^             ^^^^  ^^^^
    |              |     |
    Setuid       Owner  Group

Use 'chown root:mail newsd' and 'chmod 4750 newsd' to enforce 
these permissions. If your mail server uses a group other than
"mail", use the corresponding group name so that only the mail
server and root can execute the newsd program.

Send a test email to rush.general@yourdomain.com to see if the
message gets added to the group. If it doesn't, check for a
bounced message.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<newsd.conf(5)> -- configuration files for erco's simple nntp news server

=item RFC 977 -- NNTP Protocol

=item RFC 2890 -- NNTP extensions

=item RFC 1036 -- Usenet news messages format

=back

=head1 LIMITATIONS

By design, I<newsd> does NOT manage usenet news feeds. It
acts as a private news server only. Remote readers and posters
can be anywhere on the internet. But feeding news to, or pulling
news from other servers is neither implemented nor planned.

Authentication is not currently implemented.

Some NNTP commands are not supported, including searching by
message id. Grep the code for 'TODO' to see what needs to be
added.

There is currently no way to constrain posting or readership 
to particular IP addresses or domains.

There are probably ways to cause a denial of service.

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs using the form at "http://www.easysw.com/~mike/newsd/".

=head1 SUPPORTED NEWS READERS

I<newsd> has been tested with Netscape, Mozilla, Microsoft
Outlook and the tin(1) threaded news readers only. It should
work with most NNTP news readers, however.

=head1 AUTHORS

=over

=item Greg Ercolano, Topanga CA

=item Michael Sweet, Hollywood, MD

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

I<newsd> is copyright 2002-2004 by Greg Ercolano and Michael
Sweet. This program is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

=head1 NO WARRANTY

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

=cut

