=head1 NAME

newsd.conf - configuration files for erco's simple nntp news server

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<Newsd(8)> is a standalone local NNTP news server for private
newsgroup serving on a single server.  It is useful for serving
private newsgroup(s) to an intranet or the Internet and can act
as a simple mail gateway, however it does not interface with
other news servers and cannot manage distributed news feeds,
i.e. Usenet news.

I<Newsd> uses three types of configuration files for each
instance of the server: a global configuration file called
"newsd.conf", a per-group configuration file called ".config",
and a per-group status file called ".info".

=head1 THE NEWSD.CONF FILE

By default, I<newsd> reads the file /etc/newsd.conf
to obtain the global configuration for the server. The file is
simple text and uses the "#" character to start comments. Each
configuration line consists of a case-insensitive directive and
a value separated by whitespace, for example:

    ServerName foo.bar.com

The following directives are supported:

=over

=item ErrorLog value


Specifies the file to use for logging information, errors, and
debugging information. "stderr" specifies that the messages
should be sent to the standard error file. "syslog" specifies
that the messages should be logged via the syslog interface. If
I<value> begins with the pipe (|) character, the rest of the
value is treated as a command to pipe the error messages into.
Otherwise, I<value> is treated as an absolute filename. The
default is "stderr".

=item HostnameLookups value

When a client connects to the news server, this directive
controls whether the server looks up the client's IP address.
I<Value> can be "off" to disable IP address lookups (the IP
address will be logged instead), "on" to enable IP address
lookups, or "double" to enable IP address lookup and
verification. The default is "off".

=item Listen address:port

=item Listen port

Listens on the specified address and/or port number for new
connections. I<Address> can be an IP address, hostname, or "*"
to specify the "any" address; if no address is specified, "*" is
assumed. I<Port> can be a port number or TCP service name. The
default is to listen on address "*" (any) and port "nntp" (119).

=item LogLevel value


Specifies the amount of information to log; "error" specifies
that only error messages should be logged. "info" specifies that
informational and error messages should be logged. "debug"
specifies that debugging, informational, and error messages
should be logged. The default is "info".

=item MaxClients number


Specifies the maximum number of simultaneous clients. If
I<number> is 0, then there is no limit. The default is 0.

=item MaxLogSize value


Specifies the maximum size for the newsd log file before it's
automatically rotated. Value is in bytes. A value of 0 disables 
automatic size checks. The default is 1000000.

=item ServerName name


Specifies the hostname that is reported to clients. The default
is the name reported by I<hostname(1)>.

=item SendMail command


Specifies the command to use when sending mail messages. The
default is "/usr/local/sbin/sendmail".

=item SpoolDir directory


Specifies the root directory for newsgroup files and directories.
The default is "/var/spool/newsd".

=item Timeout seconds


Specifies the number of seconds to keep an idle news client
connection open; specify 0 to disable the idle timeout. The
default is 43200 seconds (12 hours).

=item User name


Specifies the user account the I<newsd> process will run
under. The default user account is "news".

=item Auth.User username

=item Auth.Pass password

=item Auth.Protect read|post|all

=item Auth.Sleep seconds

Sets the username and password used to authenticate access to the news server.
Auth.Protect sets which operations the user/password protects; "read" protects
read access only, "post" protects posting access only, "all" protects both read
and post access.

To disable authentication completely, set Auth.User, Auth.Pass and
Auth.Protect to dash (-).

Auth.Sleep sets the delay (in seconds) between failed attempts. [default=5]

Example: Leaves reading and posting 'open', without any authentication:

    Auth.User      -
    Auth.Pass      -
    Auth.Protect   -

Example: Protects posting with the username 'foo' password 'bar', 
while allowing anonymous read access:

    Auth.User      foo
    Auth.Pass      bar
    Auth.Protect   post

Example: Protects reading and posting with the username 'foo' password 'bar':

    Auth.User      foo
    Auth.Pass      bar
    Auth.Protect   all

=item NoRecurseMsgDir [yes|no]

If enabled, prevents newsd from looking for subgroups in dirs that contain
messages.

When the message dirs are large (have many articles), it prevents some NNTP
operations from having to walk these large dirs.

Disable if you plan to have groups that contain msgs AND subgroups.
Otherwise, leave enabled to help NNTP commands (eg. "LIST") respond
quickly when groups have many articles.

=item MsgModDirs [yes|no]

Optimization: save articles in subdirs modulus 1000

Use this if groups will contain many thousands of articles.
Helps prevent OS having to walk large linear directories of articles.
Enabling this feature ensures there are no more than 1000 articles
in a dir at a time.

So when disabled, articles are saved this way:

    /path/fltk/general/0/{1,2,3..99998,99999,100000,100001..}

..and when this feature is enabled, articles are saved this way:

    /path/fltk/general/0/{1,2,3..998,999}
    /path/fltk/general/1000/{1000,1001,1002..1998,1999}
    /path/fltk/general/2000/{2000,2001,2002..2998,2999}
    ..etc..

If enabled, then groups cannot have entirely numeric names (eg. "alt.1000"),
to prevent newsd from confusing message dirs with group names.

=back

=head1 NEWSGROUP FILES AND DIRECTORY

The /var/spool/news directory contains all the newsgroups and
articles with one file per article and one directory per
newsgroup.



The directory hierarchy dictates the available news 
groups, e.g.

    /var/spool/news/rush/general

is the directory for the 'rush.general' news group, and
in that directory will be one file per news article, each
filename being the article's number, eg:

    /var/spool/news/rush/general/1
    /var/spool/news/rush/general/2
    /var/spool/news/rush/general/3

would be the pathnames for the three news articles whose
article numbers are 1, 2 and 3. Each article contains the
complete ascii text of the article, including the article's
header and message body, as per RFC 1036.



The directory permissions should be:

    chown -R news.news /var/spool/news
    find /var/spool/news -type d -exec chmod 755 {} \;
    find /var/spool/news -type f -exec chmod 644 {} \;

Each active newsgroup's directory has its own .config file. For
example, the newsgroup 'rush.general' would have a .config file
called:

    /var/spool/news/rush/general/.config

which might look like:

    description Rush render queue discussion group
    creator     news@news.domain.com
    postok      1
    postlimit   1000
    ccpost      erco@domain.com
    replyto	-

Any newsgroup directory that does I<not> have a .config file 
will not show up in users' news readers.

Manual modification of these files should be done carefully  if
the I<newsd> daemon is running. Do the following to prevent
I<newsd> from loading a file while it is being edited:

1) Make a copy of the file called ".config.new".

2) Modify the copy.

3) Rename the copy to ".config" to make it take effect.

=head1 THE .CONFIG FILE FORMAT

Each group's .config file is in a simple plain text format similar
to newsd.conf:

=over

=item description text

Specifies the one line description of this group, which shows up
when people first subscribe to the newsgroup.

=item creator email-address

Specifies the email address of the owner of this group. Where
mail should be sent regarding questions about the maintenance
and administration of the group. This address is also used as
the Errors-To: address for all email messages sent by newsd.

=item postok value


Controls whether articles can be posted to this group. "0"
indicates posting is not allowed (read-only group) while "1"
indicates anyone can post to this group. The default value is
"1".

=item postlimit number-lines


Specifies the maximum number of lines in an article. Articles
will be rejected if they exceed this value. Set this value to
"0" to disable the limit. The default limit is "1000".

=item ccpost address[,address,...]


=item ccpost -


Sets the list of email addresses to be cc'ed whenever a posting
is made to the group. If set to '-', no email is sent. A single
line of addresses may not exceed 255 characters; to make longer
lists of addresses, use separate lines, eg:

    ccpost a@foo.com,b@foo.com,c@foo.com
    ccpost d@foo.com

Or to make things more readable, use one address per line:

    ccpost a@foo.com
    ccpost b@foo.com
    ccpost c@foo.com

The default is "-".

=item replyto email-address

=item replyto -

Specifies an email address for the Reply-To header. This forces
replies to be sent to the specifies address, typically a mail
gateway back to the newsgroup. If set to "-", no Reply-To header
will be sent. The default is "-".

=back

=head1 .INFO FILES

I<newsd> automatically creates and maintains little ".info"
files in each active group's directory. Each file maintains
runtime information about that group's news articles.

Normally these files are automatically created and maintained, 
and should not be administered by hand unless manually fixing 
a problem, in which case the daemon should not be running.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item newsd(8) -- erco's simple nntp news server

=item RFC 977 -- NNTP Protocol

=item RFC 2890 -- NNTP extensions

=item RFC 1036 -- Usenet news messages format

=back

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs using the form at "http://www.easysw.com/~mike/newsd/".

=head1 SUPPORTED NEWS READERS

I<newsd> has been tested with Netscape, Mozilla, Microsoft
Outlook and the tin(1) threaded news readers only. It should
work with most NNTP news readers, however.

=head1 AUTHORS

=over

=item Greg Ercolano, Topanga CA

=item Mike Sweet, Hollywood, MD

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

I<newsd> is copyright 2002-2004 by Greg Ercolano and Michael
Sweet. This program is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

=head1 NO WARRANTY

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

=cut
